---
layout: post
title: Chapter One - Writing a Blockchain !
---

## Basics !

So, before actually writing a crypto-currency, we actually need the building block of a crypto-currency, which is a __Blockchain__. The fundamental concept of a blockchain is pretty simple. It is a very vast database , which maintains a continuosly list of growing ordered records ( transactions ). These transactions are visible to each and everyone on the blockchain, but those are immutable, i.e. people can see the transactions , but actually cannot change them or work with them. Now, there is no central authority governing them. Everything happens in a decentralized format . That means , no one ( not even the creator of a blockchain network  ) has authority over it . 

So, now you might be wondering , that __if no one has authority over it , then who controls the network ?__ Well, the answer is pretty simple to that. And that is the community. Now , there is no compulsion that everyone needs to maintain the ledger, but people volunteer to maintain it. So, what happens is that , for example , there is a blockchain network of 10 people. These 10 people have their data over the network. Now, let's even say that , this small network also has its own currency and out of those 10 people 4 have volunteered to maintian the ledger. So , what happens is that, if a person sends currency to another person, it creates a transaction. Now , that transaction , does not happens immediately. The transaction gets recorded in the network itself. Now comes the role of the miners. Actually , each transaction is just some data being sent to another person, which is cryptographically hashed , and each of you guys ( the one who is sending and the one who is recieving , will be haing a public and private key ). Now, these keys need to be matched . Here comes the role of the community. The community actually verfies , that this transaction is valid or not . It does so , on the base of some proof algorithm. For example, the bitcoin works on the __PROOF-OF-WORK algorithm__, which basically means , that community verifies that some work is being done . We will go over it in detail, once we write our own proof-of-work algorithm. There are many more algorithms available , like the ethereum's __Proof-of-Stake__ algo, or the Hyperledger Sawtooth algo, __proof-of-elapsed-time__, but thats a topic for some another time. 

Now , that we know some of the basics , we can move on. If you feel , that you have missed any part , or haven't understood something , don't worry. Keep moving forward . I am sure , things will start becoming clear as you move forward. Still, if you have any questions or concerns , kindly shoot me a mail at __jsutdvnsh2208@outlook.com__.

---

## Not so Basics !

Here , we would dive somewhat deeper into the technical concepts of the blockchain. Also, we will start with the programming in this section. So brace yourself. I hope you enjoy as much as I do. 

#### Public Key Cryptography !

Public-key cryptography, or asymmetrical cryptography, is any cryptographic system that uses pairs of keys: public keys which may be dispersed widely on the network itself, and private keys which are known only to the owner. This accomplishes two functions: authentication, where the public key verifies a holder of the paired private key sent the message, and encryption, where only the paired private key holder can decrypt the message encrypted with the public key. Now , <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_(cryptosystem)">RSA</a> and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_Curve_Digital_Signature_Algorithm">Elliptic Curve Digital Signature (ECDSA)</a> are the most popular public-key cryptography algorithms.

So, if you are wondering about bitcoin, it also uses ECDSA Algo , to generate public-private key pairs. But the bitcoin architechture is quite hard to understand , as it uses a variety of keys and address and not just one. But since our project is at its initial phase, we will only be having , one pair of public/private key, and our wallets address is actually the public key. 

So, __how does the transaction works ?__. So, as explained earlier, lets say, person X wants to send some coins ( in our case NELL-MDCoins ) to person Y. So , what X will do is that he/she will create a transaction, and would enter both his and the person Y's public key ( we are using wallet address as the public key , remember ? ), and also enters the amount of money X wants to send. This transaction will not be valid if she dosen't sign the transaction with her private key. Signing in cryptography generally means that, the person sending the amount is a real person and thus the transaction is valid . So, now , a computer on the blockchain network , verifies that this transaction is valid ( using X public key and a verification algorithm ) and adds it to the block. Now , what happens is that , this transaction containing block is later on added to the blockchain. And since the transaction gets verified , the person Y recieves his/her money. So, lets write a cryptoEdDSAUtil function which will help us in generating secrets , keypairs, signHashes and verification.

```python
import hashlib, binascii
SALT = '0ffaa74d206930aaece253f090c88dbe6685b9e66ec49ad988d84fd7dff230d1';

class CryptoEdDSAUtil:
    @staticmethod
    def generateSecret( self, password ):
        secret = hashlib.pbkdf2_hmac('sha512', password, SALT, 10000, 512)
        return binascii.hexlify(secret)

```

So we haven't done anything fancy here . We have just created a class named CyrptoEdDSAUtil and then added a static method to generate a secret key. We are using the python's standard library hashlib and using the pbdkf2 function, which is a higher level function , to help us prevent brute force attacks. The arguments provided are , it uses sha512 algorithm to hash. It uses a random salt we provided. The password to hash , 10000 iterations , number of iterations sha512 should perform and 512 is the derieved key length. Now, we need another function that , generates Key Pairs from given secret . Unfortunately , we do not have a super nice package like __elliptic__ in JS , but dont you worry . I have created a port of the package . You can install it by typing `pip install ellipticpy`. If you want to get in details , read the documentation [here](https://justdvnsh.github.io/elliptic-py) and the source code [here](https://github.com/justdvnsh/elliptic-py). We just need to use it now.

```python
import hashlib, binascii
SALT = '0ffaa74d206930aaece253f090c88dbe6685b9e66ec49ad988d84fd7dff230d1';
import ellipticpy

class CryptoEdDSAUtil:
    ...
    @staticmethod
    def generateKeyPairFromSecret( self, secret ):
        ## create key pair
        keyPair = ellipticpy.SigningKey.from_secret(secret)
        return keyPair
``` 

So, as seen , it just generates key value pairs from a given secret. Now since, we have written the public and private key generating algorithms, lets now write two more functions to sign the hash and to verify it.

```python
class CryptoEdDSAUtil:
     ...
     @staticmethod
    def signhash( self, keyPair, messageHash ):
        signature = binascii.hexlify(keyPair.sign(messageHash)).lower()
        return signature

    @staticmethod
    def verifySignature( self, publicKey, signature, messageHash ):
        key = publicKey.get_verifying_key()
        verified = key.verify(signature, messageHash)
        return verified
```

Now , here , we have only added two functions , one to sign a hash and other one to verify it. So , with this in place , we have completed our , cryptoUtil Library. Now, we need to start laying out bricks for the Blockchain network.